Date: November 8th
Speaker: Raunak Borker
Affiliation: Stanford University
Title: A High-Order Discontinuous Galerkin Method for Variable-Coefficient Advection-Diffusion Problems
<abstract>
A high-order discontinuous Galerkin method with Lagrange multipliers (DGLM)
is presented for the solution of the steady advection-diffusion equation
with a variable advection field in the high Peclet number regime. In this
regime, the standard finite element method (FEM) might produce non-physical
oscillations in the solution at practical mesh resolutions. Like a
Discontinuous Enrichment Method (DEM) [1], the DGLM method described in
this presentation overcomes the issue of spurious oscillations near boundary
layers by attempting to resolve them using appropriate shape functions.
Specifically, these are chosen as polynomials that are additively enriched
with free-space solutions of the governing differential equation. Also like a
DEM, the DGLM method presented here in enforces a weak continuity of the
solution across inter-element boundaries using Lagrange multipliers and is
amenable to efficient numerical technique of static condensation. DGLM is
based on the primal hybrid-variational formulation. Unlike a Hybrid
Discontinuous Galerkin (HDG) method [2] however, it operates directly on the
second-order form of the advection-diffusion equation and does not require
any stabilization.

Recently in [3], DGLM was developed for the constant coefficient
advection-diffusion problem. The present work focuses on the extensions of
this approach to the variable coefficient problem. The major challenge in this
extension is in deriving free-space solutions for the variable advection-field
case. This challenge is overcome by using asymptotic analysis which provides
enrichment functions for exponential and parabolic boundary layers. The
resulting DGLM method is theoretically proven to be well-posed.

This talk will introduce the DGLM framework, the enrichment functions for the
constant and variable coefficient cases, and discuss possible extensions to
the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations. Numerical results for the
advection-diffusion equation demonstrating the benefits of the enrichment
functions in overcoming oscillations by reducing the error constant while
maintaining a high-order convergence will be presented.

[1] C. Farhat, I. Harari, L. P. Franca, The discontinuous enrichment method, Comput. Methods Appl. Mech. Eng., 190, 6455- 6479, 2001.

[2] N. C. Nguyen, J. Peraire, B. Cockburn, An implicit high-order hybridizable discontinuous Galerkin method for linear convection-diffusion equations, J. Comput. Phys., 228, 3232-3254, 2009.

[3] R. Borker, C. Farhat, R. Tezaur, A high-order discontinuous Galerkin method for unsteady advection-diffusion problems, J. Comput. Phys., 332, 2017.
</abstract>
